Add IQS048 rule (#2422)
home-assistant/developers.home-assistant: docs/core/integration-quality-scale/rules/iqs048.md

---

> title: "IQS048 - The documentation described the provided service actions that can be used"
> ---
> 
> IQS048 is as follows:
> 
> The documentation described the provided service actions that can be used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "IQS048 - The documentation describes the provided service actions that can be used"
---

IQS048 is as follows:

The documentation describes the provided service actions that can be used
```

## Reasoning

> Integrations can register service actions to provide functionality that is not possible with normal entities.
> These service actions can be harder to use, so we want to make sure that the documentation describes both what they do, and what the parameters are.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Integrations can register service actions to provide functionality that is not possible with standard entities.
These service actions can be harder to use than the standard service actions, so we want to make sure that the documentation describes both what they do, and what the parameters are.
```

## Example implementation

```markdown
## Actions

The integration provides the following actions.

> ### Get schedule

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Action: Get schedule
```

The `my_integration.get_schedule` service is used to fetch a schedule from the integration.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Action `xiaomi_miio.vacuum_goto`

Go to the specified coordinates.

- **Data attribute**: `entity_id`
  - **Description**: Only act on a specific robot.
  - **Optional**: No.
- **Data attribute**: `x_coord`
  - **Description**: X-coordinate, integer value. The dock is located at x-coordinate 25500.
  - **Optional**: No.
- **Data attribute**: `y_coord`
  - **Description**: Y-coordinate, integer value. The dock is located at y-coordinate 25500.
  - **Optional**: No.
 
 ### Action `xiaomi_miio.vacuuNm_remote_control_move`

Remote control the robot. Ensure you first set it in remote control mode with `remote_control_start`.

- `entity_id`: Only act on a specific robot. Not optional.
- `velocity`: Speed: between -0.29 and 0.29. Not optional.
- `rotation`: Rotation: between -179 degrees and 179 degrees. Not optional.
- `duration`: The number of milliseconds that the robot should move for. Not optional.
```
I think both options could work.

| Data attribute         | Optional | Description                                          |
|------------------------|----------|------------------------------------------------------|

> | `config_entry_id`      | No       | The ID of the config entry to get the schedule from. |

Author: I do know that I heard that tables are meh and that we need a better way to display them, what do we want? Because this is probably the best way to get integrations to use the new format

Reviewer: I don't think we need to decide the presentation now. We can change that later when we know a better alternative.

Reviewer 2: I agree with Martin on this one.

While we do have the intention to change it, we are not there yet. So let's not.

> | Data attribute         | Optional | Description                                          |
> |------------------------|----------|------------------------------------------------------|
> | `config_entry_id`      | No       | The ID of the config entry to get the schedule from. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The action supports the following data attributes: 

- `config_entry_id`: The ID of the config entry to get the schedule from. Not optional.
```
One possibility would be to use a list instead. If there are more columns, or columns that are not obvious, the titles could be mentioned in the introductory paragraph, so that readers know what they are looking at.

Reviewer 2: ![CleanShot 2024-11-18 at 13 39 06@2x](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d24e92e9-4939-4e1c-a2c2-b0a78bd22704)

We should not add the technical identifier in the heading, it should describe what it does and not show an internal 😬
